In this exercise, the goal was to demonstrate how to securely connect to an instance
in AWS without requiring local storage or passwords or private key files.
So from our AWS console,
I'm at the EC2 instances page.
As you can see, I have an instance that has been launched for this exercise.
Let's check the security group rules to verify that it does
not allow any incoming connections.
As you can see, this instance has a security group
which does not allow any inbound connections.
Now this instance is also set up with an instance profile role.
This is the role that's assigned to the instance.
Let's see what permissions this role contains.
So I'm going to open this in another tab and go to the IAM role page.
As you can see, this role has the managed policy,
Amazon SSM managed instance core.
This just allows the SSM agent that's on
the instance to work with the AWS Systems Manager service.
Now I'm also going to check the IAM role,
which we will use to login to the instance.
So I'm going to use the cand-c3-iam role to login to the instance.
I also check the IAM role which should be used by the user who needs to login.
We want to make sure that this role only
has permissions to connect to the specified instance that the user needs to.
I've created a sample policy and assigned the policy to the role.
Let's take a look at the policy.
As you can see, this policy allows the user to start
a session with the specific instance on my account.
So now let's go ahead and assume
this role and I can assume the role by just clicking this link.
So this will allow me to switch into that role.
Now that I've assumed the role,
I'm going to use the Systems Manager,
Session Manager tool to login to the instance.
So I'm going to find Session Manager here,
then start a session and this shows me all of the instances that I have available to use
this tool and choose this as my instance and I try to start the session.
I was successfully able to login to the instance.
So I'm going to go ahead and terminate my session now.
I hope that through this exercise you've become more comfortable
with a secure method of connecting to your instances running in the cloud.